---
title: Overcoming desensitization without losing hope
date: "2020-05-31"
description: "Don't let an undesired reality become the norm"
---

Depending on your perspective as a voting American citizen, the past four years have been very dark for this country. But the last few months and in particular the last week have been devastating, with COVID-19 [disproportionately affecting blacks and ethnic minorities](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/need-extra-precautions/racial-ethnic-minorities.html). (This is not new - the CDC sites a study in reminding us that "history shows that severe illness and death rates tend to be higher for racial and ethnic minority groups during public health emergencies".) Last week the world watched George Floyed die as a result of a police officer's knee being pressed onto his neck for 9 minutes, and the resulting demonstrations while starting peacefully escalated into violence and destruction around the nation. Fingers are being pointed in different directions, including the police for escalating the situation and extremist or outside organizations for co-opting the protests.

I don't have much to add to the ongoing flood of analysis, but what struck me this morning is how desensitized I've become to such bad news. Of course I was horrified when I read the news about George Floyd and watched the video and wasn't able to think straight afterward. I didn't however join the protests and indeed my wife and I still made an Instgram post a couple days later about a meal we had. It wasn't only after a full day of watching our country burn that when we felt the guilt rush in, filling tonedeaf void with the emotions we should have felt initially. I feel that I'm not alone in this behavior because when I open up social media I mostly still see the same mundane posts from others as well.

We must do something to overcome this desensitization without giving in to despair, so that we as a country can take action to address issues such as [police brutality](https://www.facebook.com/100001089766592/posts/3080526525326976/) against black people instead of continuing to let the situation worsen to the point where a single incident can cause the entire country to erupt. I believe as individuals we should always be thinking about how we can contribute to these sorts of problems, ignoring the perceived unsurmountability of the issues at hand.